# 3.0 Identity and Access Management 

* [Learning Objectives](3.0a)
* [3.1 Protecting AWS credentials](3.1)
* [3.2 Fine-grained authorization](3.2)
* [Lesson 3 Quiz](3.q)

Identity and access management are key parts of an information security program, ensuring that only authorized and authenticated users are able to access your resources, and only in a manner that you intend. For example, you should define principals (that is, users, groups, services, and roles that take action in your account), build out policies aligned with these principals, and implement strong credential management. These privilege-management elements form the core of authentication and authorization.

In AWS, privilege management is primarily supported by the AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) service, which allows you to control user and programmatic access to AWS services and resources. You should apply granular policies, which assign permissions to a user, group, role, or resource. You also have the ability to require strong password practices, such as complexity level, avoiding re-use, and enforcing multi-factor authentication (MFA). You can use federation with your existing directory service. For workloads that require systems to have access to AWS, IAM enables secure access through roles, instance profiles, identity federation, and temporary credentials.

The following questions focus on these considerations for security.

* [SEC 1: How do you manage credentials and authentication?](https://wa.aws.amazon.com/wat.question.SEC_1.en.html)
* [SEC 2: How do you control human access?](https://wa.aws.amazon.com/wat.question.SEC_2.en.html)
* [SEC 3: How do you control programmatic access?](https://wa.aws.amazon.com/wat.question.SEC_3.en.html)

Credentials must not be shared between any user or system. User access should be granted using a least-privilege approach with best practices including password requirements and MFA enforced. Programmatic access including API calls to AWS services should be performed using temporary and limited-privilege credentials such as those issued by the AWS Security Token Service.

AWS provides resources that can help you with Identity and access management. To help learn best practices, explore our hands-on labs on managing credentials & authentication, controlling human access, and controlling programmatic access. [Source](https://wa.aws.amazon.com/wat.pillar.security.en.html)