# 4.0 Detective Controls

* [Learning Objectives](4.0a)
* [4.1 Capture and analyze logs](4.1)
* [4.2 Integrate auditing controls with notification and workflow](4.2)
* [4.3 Detecting anomalies](4.3)
* [Lesson 4 Quiz](4.q)


You can use detective controls to identify a potential security threat or incident. They are an essential part of governance frameworks and can be used to support a quality process, a legal or compliance obligation, and for threat identification and response efforts. There are different types of detective controls. For example, conducting an inventory of assets and their detailed attributes promotes more effective decision making (and lifecycle controls) to help establish operational baselines. You can also use internal auditing, an examination of controls related to information systems, to ensure that practices meet policies and requirements and that you have set the correct automated alerting notifications based on defined conditions. These controls are important reactive factors that can help your organization identify and understand the scope of anomalous activity.

In AWS, you can implement detective controls by processing logs, events, and monitoring that allows for auditing, automated analysis, and alarming. CloudTrail logs, AWS API calls, and CloudWatch provide monitoring of metrics with alarming, and AWS Config provides configuration history. Amazon GuardDuty is a managed threat detection service that continuously monitors for malicious or unauthorized behavior to help you protect your AWS accounts and workloads. Service-level logs are also available, for example, you can use Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) to log access requests.

The following questions focus on these considerations for security.

* [SEC 4: How do you detect and investigate security events?](https://wa.aws.amazon.com/wat.question.SEC_4.en.html)

Log management is important to a well-architected design for reasons ranging from security or forensics to regulatory or legal requirements. It is critical that you analyze logs and respond to them so that you can identify potential security incidents. AWS provides functionality that makes log management easier to implement by giving you the ability to define a data-retention lifecycle or define where data will be preserved, archived, or eventually deleted. This makes predictable and reliable data handling simpler and more cost effective.
[Source](https://wa.aws.amazon.com/wat.pillar.security.en.html)