# 5.0 Infrastructure Protection

* [Learning Objectives](5.0a)
* [5.1 Protecting network and host-level boundaries](5.1)
* [5.2 System security configuration and maintenance](5.2)
* [5.3 Enforcing service-level protection](5.3)
* [5.4 Governance Across your AWS Accounts](5.4)
* [Lesson 5 Quiz](5.q)

Infrastructure protection encompasses control methodologies, such as defense in depth, necessary to meet best practices and organizational or regulatory obligations. Use of these methodologies is critical for successful, ongoing operations in either the cloud or on-premises.

In AWS, you can implement stateful and stateless packet inspection, either by using AWS-native technologies or by using partner products and services available through the AWS Marketplace. You should use Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) to create a private, secured, and scalable environment in which you can define your topology—including gateways, routing tables, and public and private subnets.

The following questions focus on these considerations for security.

* [SEC 5: How do you protect your network resources?](https://wa.aws.amazon.com/wat.question.SEC_5.en.html)
* [SEC 6: How do you protect your compute resources?](https://wa.aws.amazon.com/wat.question.SEC_6.en.html)

Multiple layers of defense are advisable in any type of environment. In the case of infrastructure protection, many of the concepts and methods are valid across cloud and on-premises models. Enforcing boundary protection, monitoring points of ingress and egress, and comprehensive logging, monitoring, and alerting are all essential to an effective information security plan.

AWS customers are able to tailor, or harden, the configuration of an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2), Amazon EC2 Container Service (Amazon ECS) container, or AWS Elastic Beanstalk instance, and persist this configuration to an immutable Amazon Machine Image (AMI). Then, whether triggered by Auto Scaling or launched manually, all new virtual servers (instances) launched with this AMI receive the hardened configuration. [Source](https://wa.aws.amazon.com/wat.pillar.security.en.html)