# 6.0 Data Protection

* [Learning Objectives](6.0a)
* [6.1 Data classification](6.1)
* [6.2 Encryption/tokenization](6.2)
* [6.3 Protecting data at rest](6.3)
* [6.4 Protecting data in transit](6.4)
* [6.5 Data backup/replication/recovery](6.5)
* [6.6 Secrets management](6.6)
* [Lesson 6 Quiz](6.q)


Before architecting any system, foundational practices that influence security should be in place. For example, data classification provides a way to categorize organizational data based on levels of sensitivity, and encryption protects data by way of rendering it unintelligible to unauthorized access. These tools and techniques are important because they support objectives such as preventing financial loss or complying with regulatory obligations.

In AWS, the following practices facilitate protection of data:

As an AWS customer you maintain full control over your data.

AWS makes it easier for you to encrypt your data and manage keys, including regular key rotation, which can be easily automated by AWS or maintained by you.

Detailed logging that contains important content, such as file access and changes, is available.

AWS has designed storage systems for exceptional resiliency. For example, Amazon S3 Standard, S3 Standard–IA, S3 One Zone-IA, and Amazon Glacier are all designed to provide 99.999999999% durability of objects over a given year. This durability level corresponds to an average annual expected loss of 0.000000001% of objects. [Source](https://wa.aws.amazon.com/wat.pillar.security.en.html)

Versioning, which can be part of a larger data lifecycle management process, can protect against accidental overwrites, deletes, and similar harm.

AWS never initiates the movement of data between Regions. Content placed in a Region will remain in that Region unless you explicitly enable a feature or leverage a service that provides that functionality.

The following questions focus on these considerations for security.

* [SEC 7: How do you classify your data?](https://wa.aws.amazon.com/wat.question.SEC_7.en.html) 
* [SEC 8: How do you protect your data at rest?](https://wa.aws.amazon.com/wat.question.SEC_8.en.html) 
* [SEC 9: How do you protect your data in transit?](https://wa.aws.amazon.com/wat.question.SEC_9.en.html) 

AWS provides multiple means for encrypting data at rest and in transit. We build features into our services that make it easier to encrypt your data. For example, we have implemented server-side encryption (SSE) for Amazon S3 to make it easier for you to store your data in an encrypted form. You can also arrange for the entire HTTPS encryption and decryption process (generally known as SSL termination) to be handled by Elastic Load Balancing (ELB). [Source](https://wa.aws.amazon.com/wat.pillar.security.en.html)