# 7.1 Clean Room with IAM, CloudTrail, and Step Functions

## Services Used
* AWS IAM
* AWS CloudFormation
* AWS CloudTrail
* Amazon CloudWatch Events
* AWS Step Functions


1. **Identify key personnel and external resources**: Identify internal and external personnel and resources that would help your organization respond to an incident.
2. **Identify tooling**: Identify AWS, partner, and open source tools that would help your organization respond to an incident.
3. **Develop incident response plans**: Create incident response plans, starting with the most likely scenarios for your workload and organization. Include how you would communicate and escalate both internally and externally.
4. **Automate containment capability**: Automate containment of an incident to reduce response times and organizational impact.
5. **Identify forensic capabilities**: Identify the forensic investigation capabilities that are available, including external specialists.
6. **Pre-provision access**: Ensure that security personnel have the correct access pre-provisioned into AWS so that an appropriate response can be made to an incident.
7. **Pre-deploy tools**: Ensure that security personnel have the right tools pre-deployed into AWS so that an appropriate response can be made to an incident.
8. **Run game days**: Practice incident response game days (simulations) regularly, incorporate lessons learned into plans, and continuously improve responses and plans.

[Source](https://wa.aws.amazon.com/wat.question.SEC_11.en.html)

## References
* https://www.slideshare.net/AmazonWebServices/automating-incident-response-and-forensics-in-aws-aws-summit-sydney-2018
